website/integrations: grafana: add Helm and Terraform config examples (#7121)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/services/grafana/index.mdx

Note the Client ID and Client Secret values. Create an application, using the provider you've created above. Note the slug of the application you've created.

## Terraform provider

```hcl

data "authentik_flow" "default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent" {
  slug = "default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent"
}

data "authentik_scope_mapping" "scope-email" {
  name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'email'"
}

data "authentik_scope_mapping" "scope-profile" {
  name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'profile'"
}

data "authentik_scope_mapping" "scope-openid" {
  name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'openid'"
}

resource "authentik_provider_oauth2" "grafana" {
  name          = "Grafana"

>   #  Required by should be fine to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  #  Required. You can use the output of:
```

Note the Client ID and Client Secret values. Create an application, using the provider you've created above. Note the slug of the application you've created.

## Terraform provider

```hcl

> data "authentik_flow" "grafana-authentication-flow" {
>   slug = "default-authentication-flow"
> }
> 
> data "authentik_flow" "grafana-authorization-flow" {
>   slug = "default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent"
> }
> 
> data "authentik_scope_mapping" "oauth-grafana-email" {
>   name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'email'"
> }
> 
> data "authentik_scope_mapping" "oauth-grafana-profile" {
>   name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'profile'"
> }
> 
> data "authentik_scope_mapping" "oauth-grafana-openid" {
>   name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'openid'"
> }
> 
> resource "authentik_scope_mapping" "grafana-login" {
>   name       = "grafana-login"
>   scope_name = "login"
>   expression = "return request.user.username"
> }
> 
> resource "authentik_scope_mapping" "grafana-name" {
>   name       = "grafana-name"
>   scope_name = "name"
>   expression = "return request.user.name"
> }
> 
> resource "authentik_provider_oauth2" "provider_grafana" {
>   name          = "Grafana"
>   client_id     = "my_client_id"
>   client_secret = "my_client_secret"
> 
>   authentication_flow = data.authentik_flow.grafana-authentication-flow.id
>   authorization_flow  = data.authentik_flow.grafana-authorization-flow.id
> 
>   redirect_uris = ["https://grafana.company/login/generic_oauth"]
> 
>   property_mappings = [
>     authentik_scope_mapping.grafana-login.id,
>     authentik_scope_mapping.grafana-name.id,
>     data.authentik_scope_mapping.oauth-gitea-email.id,
>     data.authentik_scope_mapping.oauth-gitea-profile.id,
>     data.authentik_scope_mapping.oauth-gitea-openid.id,
>   ]
> }
> 
> resource "authentik_application" "application_grafana" {
>   name              = "Grafana"
>   slug              = "grafana-slug"
>   protocol_provider = authentik_provider_oauth2.provider_grafana.id
> 
>   meta_launch_url = "https://grafana.company/"
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data "authentik_certificate_key_pair" "default" {
  name = "authentik Self-signed Certificate"
}

data "authentik_flow" "default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent" {
  slug = "default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent"
}

data "authentik_scope_mapping" "scope-email" {
  name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'email'"
}

data "authentik_scope_mapping" "scope-profile" {
  name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'profile'"
}

data "authentik_scope_mapping" "scope-openid" {
  name = "authentik default OAuth Mapping: OpenID 'openid'"
}

resource "authentik_provider_oauth2" "grafana" {
  name          = "Grafana"
  # Optional: will be generated if not provided
  # client_id     = "my_client_id"
  # client_secret = "my_client_secret"

  authorization_flow  = data.authentik_flow.default-provider-authorization-implicit-consent.id

  redirect_uris = ["https://grafana.company/login/generic_oauth"]

  property_mappings = [
    data.authentik_scope_mapping.scope-email.id,
    data.authentik_scope_mapping.scope-profile.id,
    data.authentik_scope_mapping.scope-openid.id,
  ]
  
    signing_key = data.authentik_certificate_key_pair.default.id
}

resource "authentik_application" "grafana" {
  name              = "Grafana"
  slug              = "grafana"
  protocol_provider = authentik_provider_oauth2.grafana.id
}
```

Updated the terraform to only have what's needed and to match with the other instructions.

role_attribute_path = contains(groups[*], 'Grafana Admins') && 'Admin' || contains(groups[*], 'Grafana Editors') && 'Editor' || 'Viewer'
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="helm">
If you are using helm values-file instead, you have to set these options:

```yaml
grafana.ini:
  auth:
    signout_redirect_url: "https://authentik.company/application/o/<Slug of the application from above>/end-session/"
    oauth_auto_login: true
  auth.generic_oauth:
    name: authentik
    enabled: true
    client_id: "<Client ID from above>"
    client_secret: "<Client Secret from above>"
    scopes: "openid profile email name login"
    auth_url: "https://authentik.company/application/o/authorize/"
    token_url: "https://authentik.company/application/o/token/"
    api_url: "https://authentik.company/application/o/userinfo/"
    # Optionally map user groups to Grafana roles
    role_attribute_path: contains(groups[*], 'Grafana Admins') && 'Admin' || contains(groups[*], 'Grafana Editors') && 'Editor' || 'Viewer'

```

> Note: for security reasons you shouldn't inline the client_secret instead you should adopt solution to your security requirements. Maybe you are using Sealed Secrets, SOPS or External Secrets ?
> for more information reference 'https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/grafana/README.md#how-to-securely-reference-secrets-in-grafanaini'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
For security reasons you shouldn't inline the client_secret in the values, but use a secret instead. For more information, see https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/grafana/README.md#how-to-securely-reference-secrets-in-grafanaini
:::
```

role_attribute_path = contains(groups[*], 'Grafana Admins') && 'Admin' || contains(groups[*], 'Grafana Editors') && 'Editor' || 'Viewer'
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="helm">

> If you are using helm values-file instead, you have to set these options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using a Helm `values.yaml` file instead, you have to set these options:
```

api_url = https://authentik.company/application/o/userinfo/
# Optionally map user groups to Grafana roles
role_attribute_path = contains(groups[*], 'Grafana Admins') && 'Admin' || contains(groups[*], 'Grafana Editors') && 'Editor' || 'Viewer'
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="helm">
If you are using helm values-file instead, you have to set these options:

```yaml
grafana.ini:
  auth:
    signout_redirect_url: "https://authentik.company/application/o/<Slug of the application from above>/end-session/"
    oauth_auto_login: true
  auth.generic_oauth:
    name: authentik
    enabled: true
    client_id: "<Client ID from above>"

>     client_secret: "<Client Secret from above>"

Reviewer: For Helm values, I don't like telling users to put their client_secret in the values straight away. We should at least add a comment that says that this can also be passed as an environment variable with:
```yaml
envValueFrom:
  GF_AUTH_GENERIC_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: grafana-oauth-credentials
      key: client_id
  GF_AUTH_GENERIC_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: grafana-oauth-credentials
      key: client_secret
```

Author: Yes, I agree and the reasoning is sound !

however the reason I put it in there in the first place, and hardcoded values to match (instead of generated) was to make it easy to read and follow. I however have no strong feelings about it either way.

Let me see if I can make the changes, I am afraid I am not accustomed to the 'github part' of 'git' yet

Author: This gets a bit hairy ... I think there are 3 ways of doing this ... and if we pass it as env to Grafana it might break 
i will link the issue with discussion if I can find it again !

here it is [17363](https://github.com/helm/charts/issues/17363) could be old and outdated ...

So i am guessing thats the reason for the Grafana Helm docs to spec that you should add as a file ?

[Grafana Helm docs ](https://github.com/grafana/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/grafana/README.md#how-to-securely-reference-secrets-in-grafanaini)

I will look into it and try it before we doc it ... in my case I dodge the issue using 

#   $ openssl rand -hex 32

which would mean there are spec chars to break the env import, do we have any such guarantees if go with generated values ? Would that be a better option ?

Reviewer: We're using that way for our grafana instance so I'm pretty sure it works. We can also not specify a specific way of doing things, but just have a comment along the lines of "The client secret should not be passed directly via Helm values, but via a secret. Check Grafana Helm chart documentation for more information."
